[Music]
ladies and gentlemen it is a pleasure
and a privilege to be here in Hamburg to
speak to you about the evolution taking
place in marketing and communications
from Mad Men to mass men and
particularly in conjunction with some of
the works that we contributed to Donald
Trump's presidential campaign throughout
the presidential cycle in 2016
Trump was vocal about the fact that it
is candidates and not technologies that
win campaigns and in this regard we
would absolutely agree with him that
said I'd like to talk today about three
technologies three methodologies that
are shaping the way that political
campaigns and brands and communication
campaigns are being delivered the first
of these is behavioral science and
probably the easiest way to explain this
is through illustration were you lucky
enough to own a private beach and you
wanted to stop people from swimming in
your piece of the ocean you might put up
this piece of advertising on the left
this is informational communication and
seeks to inform attitudes conversely you
might seek to employ the piece of
communication on the right this is
behavioral communication and it seeks to
probe and altogether deeper motivation
clearly the threat of being eaten by a
shark is a very compelling argument to
stop you swimming in the sea yes this is
extremely difficult to do and most
advertising and communication agencies
today still segment and target based on
demographics Geographics consumer and
lifestyle attribution and media
consumption but when you stop for just a
moment and think about this the idea of
segmenting audiences
based on gender is very ridiculous the
idea that all women should get the same
message simply because of their sex or
all african-americans because of their
ethnicity or all old people or rich
people or young people because of their
demographics it simply doesn't make
sense
clearly your demographics your
Geographics your media consumption your
consumer and lifestyle attributes will
influence the way that you see the world
but as important or possibly more
important is personality or
psychographics an understanding of
personality is key because it is
personality that informs decision making
and clearly your decisions will drive
the way that you vote or which products
and services that you purchase so it
Cambridge we've rolled out a very long
form quantitative instrument to probe
the underlying traits that make up your
personality we use the cutting edge and
experimental psychology this is the
ocean five factor personality model
ocean being an acronym for Oh openness
how open you are to new experiences
conscientiousness how much you care
about order and habits and planning in
your life extraversion how socially
minded you are agreeableness whether you
tend to put your needs ahead of society
and community or vice versa
and finally neuroticism a measurement of
how much you tend to worry why is this
important it's important because if
you're targeting audiences purely on
demographics you might end up sending
the same message to people who really
have very different worldviews in this
example these two these two individuals
both the same gender both the same
income both the same lifestyle
attributes broadly but we can see that
the gentleman on the left here has a
very conscientious and agreeable
personality whereas on this side the
gentleman's very extroverted so if we
knew that both these individuals are in
the market
for an automotive we might want to use
psychographics to target and message
them differently specifically a highly
agreeable person might be more
interested in a product that had
qualities that were more relevant in
today's society such as an electronic
engine a conscientious person could be
persuaded by a rational fact-based
argument such as the one that set out in
this piece of creative this is in
contrast to an extrovert to whom we
might want to market a sports car and to
use language and Emirate imagery that
evokes the emotion and the experience
that buying such a car would provide the
second technology i want to talk about
is data analytics big data is
fundamentally changing the way that
communications are undertaken back in
the 1950s the era of madmen creative was
top-down that his brilliant minds came
up with creative concepts and they push
them on to an audience in the hope that
they would resonate but today we can use
big data to understand exactly what
messages each specific group within a
target audience need to hear way before
the creative process is even started so
what is big data big data is really
aggregation of as many data points that
you can possibly get your hands on this
includes factual data demographic data
such as age gender ethnicity religion
and so forth attitudinal data what car
you drive what magazine do you read what
social media you engage with what church
you attend what golf club you belong to
and so forth and of course behavioral or
personality data an understanding of
your worldview so we can take all these
data and synthesize them into one
database of record and use this to build
complex but very powerful models about
the audiences we're seeking to engage
with and then use these models to drive
a much
more individualized community service
communication engagement let me
illustrate this with a rather simple
example for a dental product toothpaste
you can see a data dashboard the
engagement map up here is divided
between those people who are more likely
to be influenced by an economic argument
price sensitivity and on the other axis
we see those people more likely to
engage with a brand preference so
clearly the people on the right shaded
blue might respond better to an offer
for a discount that could be a positive
way to engage them conversely the people
who are more stimulated by brand
preference will need a persuasive
argument based around product features
such as the ones listed here remove
stains whitens teeth bad breath gum
health etc but this dashboard also
informs us about which media channels
different audiences are likely to engage
with and earning potentials therefore
spend potentials and basic gemacht
demographics overlaid on this is an
understanding of personality or
psychographic so we can start to nuance
our messages taking this into account so
how does this manifest itself in a piece
of creative if the audience we're
seeking to engage with is largely female
25 to 30 single middle income and so
forth that needs to be reflected in our
creative both in imagery and in the
language that we use we can see that
this person or this group is active on
Facebook so that's going to be our
channel of communication most
importantly we know they need a
persuasion message built around the fact
that this toothpaste removes stains and
finally the personality of this group is
neurotic so we need an emotional message
so the fact that stains might stop
before they spoil your smile is a very
powerful message indeed the last leg of
the stool is addressable AdTech I've
said it before and I'll say it again I'm
very much of the
that blanket advertising is dead
the idea that millions of people are
going to receive one piece of
communication is something that our
children will never understand
communication is getting ever more
individualized we are moving to an age
where we were going to have a personal
relationship with brands so whether they
communicate with you through mail email
text they're going to be writing to you
as individuals such that a husband and a
wife in the same household can receive
different communications even if they're
from the same company and on the same
product Bill Harvey famously said on
average a 10% increase in purchased
target density will generate a 7%
increase in incremental sales we can use
digital marketing to upload offline
target segments with cookies in order to
identify and engage the densest possible
audiences for specific messages in
America we can also take offline target
segments and match them to set top box
viewing data that is cable data I'm sure
you're aware but every time you watch a
cable television program the programs
that you're watching are being recorded
and sent back to the cable provider and
this it gives us a very clear
understanding of what different
audiences watch on television we can
match these viewing habits against the
audiences that were interested in
marketing to such that we can purchase
inventory in the programs that have the
highest density of the people we want to
engage with similarly in America we can
undertake hyper local television that is
buying not national broadcast or even
regional broadcast but buying by local
cable provider which allows you to
purchase by just a handful of zip codes
or post codes which allows you to target
very very specifically key audience
groups so if you're in any doubt about
what I'm saying have a look at where the
money's going have a look at where the
big brands the big advertising agencies
are investing
Walmart and Ford both have been bested
hundreds millions of dollars in the last
couple of years in building analytics
capabilities or acquiring them oh girl V
the advertising giant just last week
launched their Center for behavioral
science in an attempt to understand the
impact of psychology on marketing
Kroger's of the retail giant acquired
Donna humvees of the British analytics
firm Martin Sorrell
the Guru of advertising for at least
four years has been talking about the
shift away from creative and towards
science and data and again habit the
French conglomerate is moving in the
same direction so just to illustrate how
some of these technologies can manifest
themselves a few slides on the work we
undertook for the Trump campaign which
started back in June 2016
when Cambridge analytical my firm joined
the Trump campaign there were only 30
full-time employees on the campaign
which is in stark contrast to the
Clinton campaign which had somewhere
close to 800 people working on it
clearly we were an attractive
proposition we just spent 14 months
working on the Ben Carson and Ted Cruz
campaign and had collected a huge amount
of voter data and research and a built
an entire technological infrastructure
which we were able to hand over to the
Trump team we work therefore contracted
as an end-to-end technology provider
starting with research where we were
undertaking somewhere in the region of
1,500 poles each week in each state that
is 300 or 400 thousand poles
a month in order to inform reporting
dashboards to help the campaign
understand its asset allocation and
resource allocation and also to inform
our models our predictive models about
the audiences we needed to engage with
these models then inform the
segmentation which in turn informed the
engagement we placed over a hundred
million dollars of digital buy for the
Trump
pain and tens of millions of dollars of
data-driven television so starting with
research what sort of things did we
provide the campaign
well these weekly polls provided a very
powerful insight into tracking the
electorate this was particularly
relevant when incidents took place that
needed responding to particularly good
example might be the hot mic incident
where Trump's locker room banter was
broadcast nationally what we were able
to tell the campaign is that whilst in
some states his ratings plummeted in
others they actually increased
this allowed the campaign to allocate
resources in a very targeted way another
type of dashboard is the one over here
which shows heat maps of persuadable
voters at his voters who still haven't
made up their decision who they were
going to vote for and were likely
targets for us a good example of this
would be Wisconsin Wisconsin is a state
that is traditionally a very safe
Democrat seat so much so that the
Clinton campaign never visited Wisconsin
once in the entire election but we were
able to use data to identify that there
was very large quantities of persuadable
voters there that could be influenced to
vote for the Trump campaign and so much
so
the Trump campaign had five rallies
there that five those five valleys
probably gave Trump contact with some 60
or 70,000 voters and when you think that
this state was won by a margin of only
50,000 voters that gives you some
understanding of how powerful this data
is predictive models we use a lot of
research to build models obviously donor
models of fundamentally important every
campaign needs to cash to drive its
media engagement and for the first month
we were really trying to raise as much
small dollar donation that is 15 $20
donations or less from Trump supporters
so we need to identify these people and
then to engage them in the most
compelling way
thereafter we handed this capability to
the RNC and we focused on preference
models candidate preference models which
candidates appeal to which voters
turnout models understanding whom was
going to vote and who wasn't and of
course understanding the impact of
unregistered vote that was going to be
very important finally we started to
look at issue models predicting which
issues social and political appeal to
which members of the target audience
which voters we actually assigned
different issues to every adults in the
entire United States we could then take
these models and put them into a matrix
a little bit like the dental health
example where we can categorize people
or segment them according to how they're
likely to behave core Trump supporters
top right maybe were more susceptible to
a donation solicitation get out the
votes people who are going to vote
Republican but they need persuading to
do so persuasion audiences people who
need shifting a little bit from the
center towards the right once we've
identified a segment we can then sub
segment them by the issues that are most
relevant to them and then start to
target them with specific messages so
how does this manifest itself well in
terms of digital execution as I
mentioned we raised nearly 27 million
dollars just in the first months of the
campaign and registered some million
email addresses from supporters event
promotion we promoted nearly a hundred
rallies and drove at least 35,000 people
to download the Trump app in terms of
persuasion we delivered a staggering 1.4
billion impressions in just four months
across 4,000 separate ad campaigns this
increased will had a net increase of
about 3% on favorability towards Trump
and finally in terms of absentee ballot
and get-out-the-vote
we delivered about 80 million
impressions increasing absentee balance
missions by about two
and during this period Google undertook
an independent brand lift study to
understand the impact of our work we
contacted about 150,000 people and sent
them highly targeted digital video
contents and this was as opposed to a
control group who just received generic
messaging Google reported that the
people who receive targeted
communications responded 18 percent in
terms of the uplift through search
volume this manifested itself in 11
percent increase in favorability and an
8 percent in voter intent for Trump
finally we use these data to optimize
very targeted geographically based media
buys going after very small pockets of
Trump supporters this attracted a huge
amount of attention because it was in
contrast to Trump at the Hillary's
approach which was much more broad brush
and obviously less economical clearly
the outcome of the election is well
known and a lot has been written about
it but if there's one singular take away
from this event that is that data
science technology is not a panacea you
cannot make a bad candidate into a good
one you cannot swing an election but in
political campaigns and commercial and
brand campaigns these sorts of
technologies can make a huge difference
and will continue to do so for many
years to come thank you
[Applause]
are you saying that without your help I
mean it doesn't matter in the end if you
help them or not don't come become
present even without your help well
obviously I wouldn't stand on stage and
say that but I think the point here is
that the elections we're a long way away
from a situation where elections can be
won or lost simply on the basis of
targeted engagement I think that in
elections that are increasingly won by
very small margins technology can play a
role and I think we saw that manifest
itself in this last election and I guys
from a company were here yesterday and
another day before and I already know
that but I want to ask for further for
the audience and you're open to work for
any parties not just the Republicans you
open to work for whoever asked whose are
correct well I think most people are
unaware that we probably work on eight
or ten national campaigns for Prime
Minister and president each year all
over the world and as many of these
elective Center as they are right and
center we try and leave our ideological
personal ideologies at the door in order
to provide the most professional service
so within a within a framework we will
consider working for most mainstream
parties and maybe can you say a few
words before I open up the bar on the
article that everybody in Germany read
it was the most read article on Facebook
via haben I'm gonna quickly bomb good
sized Arundel quickly bomber good size
was the name of the article by Swiss
magazine I mean sure you felt the
consequence of this article how did it
come about
is it correct what you're thinking about
this article today well look I think
some of the facts in the article were
correct I think the the journalist tried
to connect the dots without certainly
without all the information at their
fingertips I read a translation or that
we were still really heavily involved in
wrapping up in work in the States so
whilst I think it had more of an impact
in Europe we were less affected in
America so it's what it was correcting
correctable although we could read there
and we know
you are you know I'd had it had some
some enormous falsehoods in it but then
as I just explained to you some of the
technologies that we were using were
attributed correctly elections in
Germany in September you already work
with German party we're not currently
working with any parties in Germany why
not so if you if Angela Merkel is
calling you you can make her great again
if Angela Merkel was to call me I'd be
privileged the timelines were complex we
just come out of two years of work in
the United States
this is extremely high pressure long
hours and after the US election you know
we all took a break for a while and
obviously the German elections are upon
us so the the amounts of help that we
contribute at this stage would be
limited by that timeline so I understand
that as soon as you have a notion
profile of a customer or potential
customer and maybe connected with the
cookie you can target them but how do we
actually get to the ocean profile I
guess there are ten of us it's kind of a
survey a person has to do and why should
people kind of give you those complex
information in order to you make an
ocean profile because I understand that
kind of this is kind of the basis of
Anastas granular targeting right
certainly so there's no reason why
people should give up any data at all
and there's certainly no obligation to
we've managed to collect millions or
hundreds of thousands or millions I
should say of ocean profiles in the
United States by people volunteering
this information to us we can then match
these ocean profiles against the data
attributes that we hold on those
individuals who've taken these
personality inventories and we can use
that to build a training set to make
predictions about the wider audience now
in other countries we don't have this
vast insight we would have to collect it
and whether people wish to give up this
information of course is entirely up to
them
but how do you get the information in
this kind of a game or I mean what is my
incentive to give you today to kind of
spend five minutes or so of my time to
give you those informations because I
guess there are several questions behind
such model right what I think people to
undertake different social media surveys
for different reasons I think some
people are fundamentally interested to
understand what their personality is and
what that means so self inquiry is
obviously driving that I can't speak for
other audiences but we've had somewhere
shy of a couple of million people take
this test so there's obviously a
powerful motivation or many powerful
motivations for people to do so so it's
like a Facebook game the Facebook game
where you answer questions and you find
out things about yourself and while the
person playing that game you're giving
he's giving you the data well they're
voluntarily giving up their data that
they're doing this in full knowledge of
what's happening here this is this is
not anything Machiavellian or untoward
no no I'm not saying that I'm just
trying to understand that through a
Facebook game or through a Facebook
survey you're finding that out okay
exactly and before you go it goes back
to you I wanted to just know by the I
mean Germany we have very strict data
protection data protection different
legal system obviously than in the u.s.
what is from from a legal perspective
what you were able to do in the US would
that be possible
in Germany just on a legal well at a
very high level the the culture in the
United States is very much opt-out
whereas in Europe it tends to be more
opt-in in terms of data so clearly you
can't just go out and acquire data in
the same way that you can in the United
States but you can collect first party
research such as the ocean research and
if people wish to volunteer their
information such that it can be
incorporated into marketing and
communications then you can begin to
build these sorts of models equally
there are a number of you know companies
out there who already have a mass very
much very large quantities of their own
data which
then be used in models for their own
internal marketing purposes I I just
actually have only one question so if
it's really true that you have Trump
getting Colossus are you happy
putting a misogynist
[Applause]
a misogynist buffoon the highest the
most powerful job in the world who's now
up our world are you happy well
I think you need to step backwards a
little bit and understand that I don't
think it's for people sitting in other
countries to cast their opinions on the
self-determination of the United States
Trump was one of seventeen presidential
nominees the largest field ever and he
won that nomination fair and square
through free and fair elections and then
went on to win the election so if that's
the will of the people I don't think
it's anyone's job in this room to go
against that so are you happy my
question I'm happy with the job that we
did fair enough
I accept that said you work for consumer
products and you work for political
parties as a service company
okay it's all for Trump well obviously
working on a political campaign by its
very nature is divisive and we have to
be very careful that the candidates or
parties that we work for don't cause any
reputational damage to the company that
aren't going to upset our staff or
employees and that obviously aren't
going to upset any of our other clients
or customers but beyond that you know as
long as they're free and fair elections
and democracy is being upheld we think
it's the duty of our firm to provide
candidates with the best possible
service and fair representation that's
the only way you can have fair elections
thank you what reviews PEPFAR I'm sure
there are but we try not to you know
together to get ourselves into a
position where we have to say no
nation value they know not that I can
recall now but clearly someone who likes
to grab women by the is absolutely
alright yes well I can't comment on that
I think that was covered in the news at
the time and I think I heard both sides
of the argument any further questions on
the bar that's it
Alex thank you very much for doing this
thank you very up here for telling us
what you did I think it's really
important to understand what's going on
I mean obviously you can argue left and
right and right and wrong but in the end
what matters is to see what's happening
and what you might be able of doing what
you explained to us today and we are
here to provide a platform for content
for description for learning for
information and I think you contributed
to the platform quite a bit with what
you said and how you explained it to us
and I think it's very helpful for me and
hopefully as well as for audience thank
you very much for coming by
thanks Tina